@c -*- mode: texinfo; coding: utf-8 -*-
@c This is part of the Guile-Fluidsynth Reference Manual.
@c Copyright (C) 2025 - David Pirotte (david at altosw dot be)
@c See the file guile-fluidsynth.texi for copying conditions.


@node Preface
@unnumbered Preface

This manual describes how to use Guile-Fluidsynth.  It relates
particularly to Guile-Fluidsynth version @value{VERSION}.

@menu
* Contributors to this manual::
* Guile-Fluidsynth License::
@end menu


@node Contributors to this manual
@unnumberedsec Contributors to this Manual

Like Guile-Fluidsynth itself, the Guile-Fluidsynth reference manual is a
living entity. Right now, the contributor to this manual is:

@itemize @bullet
@item David Pirotte
@end itemize

who is also the author and maintainer of Guile-Fluidsynth.

@c You are most welcome to join and help.

@c Visit @uref{@value{UGUILE-FLUIDSYNTH}, Guile-Fluidsynth} web site to
@c find out how to get involved.


@node Guile-Fluidsynth License
@unnumberedsec The Guile-Fluidsynth License
@cindex Copying
@cindex LGPL
@cindex License

Guile-Fluidsynth is Free Software. Guile-Fluidsynth is copyrighted, not
public domain, and there are restrictions on its distribution or
redistribution:

@itemize @bullet
@item
Guile-Fluidsynth and supporting files are published under the terms of
the GNU Lesser General Public License version 2.1 or later.  See the
file @file{LICENSE}.

@item
This manual is published under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation
License (@pxref{GNU Free Documentation License}).
@end itemize

You must be aware there is no warranty whatsoever for Guile-Fluidsynth.
This is described in full in the license.


@c Local Variables:
@c TeX-master: "guile-fluidsynth.texi"
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "american"
@c End:
